In this video, we're going to take a look at some of the different libraries and processes that we're
going to go through to implement all this testing stuff.
Now, as a reminder, we're going to really be focusing on this testing goal number one for our service.
So we are going to write out some tests that are going to try to send a request off to our service and
then make some assertion about the response or make sure that some data was written into MongoDB.
We are not going to be worried right now about writing some tests or on models or event emitting and
receiving.
So with all that in mind, let's take a look at how we're going to wire up all this testing stuff.
We're going to add in a new script to our package JSON file.
Whenever we run the command and run test, we are going to start up a test runner called Gest.
So Gest is the library that we're going to use to actually execute tests inside of our project.
Then on the right hand side, this is pretty much what we're going to have just do.
The wind just starts running.
We're going to tell just to do the following things you see over here.
First off, we're going to start up an in-memory copy of MongoDB.
So this is going to be a copy of Mongo that's running in memory.
In other words, it will not.
You do not have to install Mongo directly onto your machine.
Now, even if you already have mongo installed on your local machine, we are still going to use this
in memory.
Copy.
There's a couple of reasons for that and we'll go through them as we start to wire up the in-memory
copy.
After that, we're going to start up our Express app.
And then we'll use a library called Super Test to make fake requests to our express application.
And then after that, we will run some assertions to make sure that the request did exactly what we
expected it to do.
So maybe respond with some particular data or wrote some particular data to MongoDB.
Now I want to focus on this third step right here, the super test library.
In order to get super test working well, we're going to do a little refactor to our project.
So I want to show you some documentation around super test and help you understand why we're going to
do this refactor.
Inside of a new browser tab.
I'm going to open up the documentation for super test by going to npr.org and then doing a search for
super test.
And here it is right here.
I'm going to scroll down just a little bit and find the example section and cite this example section.
They've got a little bit of code right here.
Now, I took a screenshot of this code and put a diagram together around it, so I'm going to go back
over and take a look at that screenshot.
So here's that little bit of code that's inside the read me.
And there's just something very important inside there that I want to point out.
Right about in this section right here, they have some code to create an express server.
Now, at present, you and I are doing that inside of our index file.
Yes, technically, we create root handlers inside those other files and then we associate them all
together inside the index file.
But we actually create our express app like that express thing right there inside the index file.
Why is that relevant?
Well, down here is how we use super tests to actually test our express server.
We have to get access to the express application variable.
That is defined inside that index file.
We're going to pass that express app into this request function that is coming from the super test library.
And then we can make a request and write out some expectations around it.
The whole thing I want to focus on here.
The whole big point I'm trying to make is that we are creating our express application inside the index
file.
So at some point in time we are going to have to write out some code that's going to look a little bit
like this.
We're going to have to try to require the express application from that index file over to some testing
file just so we can get access to that app variable.
There's a little problem with that inside of our index file.
We have a lot of startup code.
We have some code to tell the Express app to start listening on some given port.
We also have some hard coded stuff to say tell mongo or Mongoose to connect to our MongoDB database
on some particular URL.
So there are some very particular very hardcoded startup logic inside of indexes.
But most in particular, I want to focus on the fact that inside of indexes we automatically start listing
on Port 3000 inside there.
Why is that relevant?
Well, at some point in time, you and I might want to be able to run multiple different tests on the
same machine.
In other words, we might want to run some tests around.
Our OTT service.
At the same time that we are running some tests around our order service, the service and the Order
Service might both be trying to listen on for 3000.
So if we try to require in our express app from that index file and both the auth service and the ticket
service or whatever else are listening on the same port, we're going to very quickly end up with an
error and we will not be able to run tests from different services on the same machine at the same time
just because they are both listening on the same port.
So to get around this and to allow us to run tests from multiple services on the same machine at the
same time, we're going to rely upon some default behavior or some nice functionality inside of super
test.
So back over here at the example section, you'll notice that it says If this server is not listening
for connections, then it will automatically start to listen on an ephemeral port.
Ephemeral port right here just means that super test is going to pick a random available port on your
computer and have the Express app start to listen on that port.
And so that feature right there will allow us to run tests from multiple different services at the same
time and not have to worry about this port issue.
However, if we want to take use of that functionality, that means that inside of our index file,
we cannot have any code that's going to have the Express app automatically start to listen on Port 3000.
So how are we going to fix this all up?
Well, here's what we're going to do.
Here's the refactor that we're going to go through in the next video.
We're going to start to split out our index file into two different files.
We're going to create a new file called App.
JJ's inside of app, JJ's.
We're going to create our express application and export it.
The Express app that we create inside this file is not going to be listening on any port.
So in other words, we are not going to have any code inside of app.
JS That looks like this right here.
We are not going to have anything inside this new app.
JJ's file that's going to have our app start listing on Port 3000 or anything else.
Instead, we're just going to export the app after we have wired up all the appropriate middleware root
handlers and so on.
We're then going to export that thing into the test file where it can then be safely used by super test.
We will also import it into a new indexes file and inside of indexes is where we're going to have some
actual code to start up our app and start listing on Port 3000.
So whenever we want to actually run our application inside of a dev or a production environment, in
other words, whenever we want to really start up our server for real, we're still going to execute
the indexed JS file and that thing's just going to pull in the app that was declared over here.
But we're going to have the separate file that exports just the app by itself, so we can still use
it safely inside that test file.
Oh.
Okay.
So that's pretty much it.
I just want to help you understand why we are doing this refactor.
Now, at this point, you might be saying, Stephen, this seems like kind of a big refactor just to
get this super test library working.
Well, it turns out that there are actually some huge benefits from creating our Express app inside
of its own file and then doing some actual startup logic inside of this other file over here.
And you're going to see some of those benefits later on as we start to work on some of our other services.
All right.
So a quick pause right here, and we're going to start to implement all this in the next video.